README.md, before:

deploy_ovf_vsim
================================

Deploys NetApp ONTAP Simulator (vsims) virtual appliances.

Requirements
------------

- Requires the vsim-netapp-DOT{{ovf_version}}-cm_nodar.ova virtual appliance downloaded from NetApp.com.  
Store the archive in either the role's files directory, or the playbook's files directory.

- Requires the community.vmware ansible galaxy collection.

- Requires pyvmoni.

Role Variables
--------------

| Variable                | Default           | Example                         | Comments                                                                     |
|-------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| state                   | "present"         | "absent"                        | present creates VMs, absent deletes them.
| vm_name                 | "SimulateONTAP"   | "vsim1"                         | a valid VM name                                                              |
| **vm_datastore**        |                   | "datastore1"                    | the VMware datastore where the node will be placed                           |
| data_network            | "VM Network"      | "pgVLAN1"                       | The vSphere portgroup used for ONTAP data and mgmt traffic                   |
| cluster_network         |                   | "pgVLAN2"                       | The vSphere portgroup used the for ONTAP cluster network                     |
| vm_disk_provisioning    | "thin"            |                                 | Virtual Disk provisioning mode                                               |
| vm_num_cpus             | "2"               | "2"                             | number of vCPUs to assign to the VM                                          |
| vm_memory_mb            | "8192"            | "8192"                          | amount of memory, in MB, to assign to the VM                                 |
| vm_num_nics             | "4"               | "8"                             | number of nics to create on the VM (4-10)                                    |
| **vcenter_address**     |                   | "vc.demo.lab"                   | The hostname or IP address of the vCenter server                             |
| **vcenter_username**    |                   | "administrator@vsphere.local"   | A vcenter username with rights to deploy the OVA                             |
| **vcenter_password**    |                   | "ChangeMe2!"                    | The password for the vcenter user                                            |
| **vcenter_datacenter**  |                   | "Datacenter 1"                  | vCenter datacenter where the node will be deployed                           |
| vcenter_cluster         |                   |                                 |                                                                              |
| ovf_version             | "9.9.1"           | "9.9.1"                         | The StorageGrid OVF version                                                  |
| ovf_file                |                   | "/files/vsim-netapp-DOT9.8.ova" | defaults to"{{role_path}}/files/vsim-netapp-DOT{{ovf_version}}-cm_nodar.ova" |
| sys_serial_number       | "4082368-50-7"    | "4082368-50-7"                  | The system serial number to assign to the vsim, must match avail. licenses   |
| nvram_sysid             |                   | "4082368507"                    | The NVRAM SYSID can optionally be specified.  Randomly generated by default. |
| vdevinit                | "34:14:0,34:14:1" | "34:14:0,34:14:1"               | simulated disk configuration.  see vars/main.yml for more information.       |
| ontap_node_mgmt_ip      |                   | "192.168.0.91"                  | If specified, node setup will be attempted using the supplied IP             |
| ontap_netmask           |                   | "255.255.255.0"                 | Subnet mask for the data network                                             |
| ontap_gateway           |                   | "192.168.0.1"                   | Gateway IP for the data network                                              |
| ontap_cluster_mgmt_ip   |                   | "192.168.0.90"                  | If specified, cluster setup will be attempted using the supplied IP          |
| ontap_cluster_name      |                   | "democluster"                   | ONTAP cluster name                                                           |
| ontap_password          | "netapp123"       | "ChangeMe2!"                    | ONTAP admin password                                                         |
| ontap_dns_domain        |                   |                                 | DNS domain                                                                   | 
| ontap_dns_server        |                   |                                 | DNS Server on the data/mgmt network                                          |
| ontap_location          |                   |                                 | optional ONTAP SNMP location value used for cluster setup                    |
| set_admin_password      | "false"           | "true"                          | set admin password even on unconfigured nodes                                |
| shelf0_disk_count       |                   | "14"                            | (1-14) Number of disks to create on shelf 0                                  |
| shelf0_disk_size        |                   | "4000"                          | valid sizes are 500,1000,2000,4000, or 9000                                  |
| shelf0_disk_type        |                   |                                 | valid type from 'vsim_makedisks -h'. See defaults/main.yml for examples.     |
| shelf1_disk_count       |                   | "14"                            | (1-14) Number of disks to create on shelf 1                                  |
| shelf1_disk_size        |                   | "4000"                          | valid sizes are 500,1000,2000,4000, or 9000                                  |
| shelf1_disk_type        |                   |                                 | valid type from 'vsim_makedisks -h'. See defaults/main.yml for examples.     |
| shelf2_disk_count       |                   |                                 | (1-14) Number of disks to create on shelf 2                                  |
| shelf2_disk_size        |                   | "14"                            | valid sizes are 500,1000,2000,4000, or 9000                                  |
| shelf2_disk_type        |                   | "23"                            | valid type from 'vsim_makedisks -h'. See defaults/main.yml for examples.     |
| shelf3_disk_count       |                   |                                 | (1-14) Number of disks to create on shelf 3                                  |
| shelf3_disk_size        |                   |                                 | valid sizes are 500,1000,2000,4000, or 9000                                  |
| shelf3_disk_type        |                   |                                 | valid type from 'vsim_makedisks -h'. See defaults/main.yml for examples.     |


Dependencies
------------

Example Playbook
----------------
      
    ---
    - hosts: localhost 
      name: Build ONTAP Simulator from OVA
      gather_facts: false
      vars: 
        vcenter_address: vcenter.demo.lab
        vcenter_username: administrator@vsphere.local
        vcenter_password: ChangeMe2!
        vcenter_datacenter: "Datacenter"
        vm_datastore: "datastore1"
      tasks:
        - include_role: 
            name: deploy_ovf_vsim
          vars:
            vm_name: vsim1
            ontap_node_mgmt_ip: "192.168.0.91"
            ontap_netmask: "255.255.255.0"
            ontap_gateway: "192.168.0.1"
            ontap_cluster_mgmt_ip: "192.168.0.90"
      

NOTES
-----
Cluster setup currently only works against the 1st node.

Author Information
------------------

Sean Hatfield
sean.hatfield@netapp.com
github.com/madlabber

Commit message:

2-node cluster create and misc fixes

README.md, after:

deploy_ovf_vsim
================================

Deploys NetApp ONTAP Simulator (vsims) virtual appliances.

Requirements
------------

- Requires the vsim-netapp-DOT{{ovf_version}}-cm_nodar.ova virtual appliance downloaded from NetApp.com.  
Store the archive in either the role's files directory, or the playbook's files directory.

- Requires the community.vmware ansible galaxy collection.

- Requires pyvmoni.

Role Variables
--------------

| Variable                | Default           | Example                         | Comments                                                                     |
|-------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| state                   | "present"         | "absent"                        | present creates VMs, absent deletes them.
| vm_name                 | "SimulateONTAP"   | "vsim1"                         | a valid VM name                                                              |
| **vm_datastore**        |                   | "datastore1"                    | the VMware datastore where the node will be placed                           |
| data_network            | "VM Network"      | "pgVLAN1"                       | The vSphere portgroup used for ONTAP data and mgmt traffic                   |
| cluster_network         |                   | "pgVLAN2"                       | The vSphere portgroup used the for ONTAP cluster network                     |
| vm_disk_provisioning    | "thin"            |                                 | Virtual Disk provisioning mode                                               |
| vm_num_cpus             | "2"               | "2"                             | number of vCPUs to assign to the VM                                          |
| vm_memory_mb            | "8192"            | "8192"                          | amount of memory, in MB, to assign to the VM                                 |
| vm_num_nics             | "4"               | "8"                             | number of nics to create on the VM (4-10)                                    |
| **vcenter_address**     |                   | "vc.demo.lab"                   | The hostname or IP address of the vCenter server                             |
| **vcenter_username**    |                   | "administrator@vsphere.local"   | A vcenter username with rights to deploy the OVA                             |
| **vcenter_password**    |                   | "ChangeMe2!"                    | The password for the vcenter user                                            |
| **vcenter_datacenter**  |                   | "Datacenter 1"                  | vCenter datacenter where the node will be deployed                           |
| vcenter_cluster         |                   |                                 |                                                                              |
| ovf_version             | "9.9.1"           | "9.9.1"                         | The StorageGrid OVF version                                                  |
| ovf_file                |                   | "/files/vsim-netapp-DOT9.8.ova" | defaults to"{{role_path}}/files/vsim-netapp-DOT{{ovf_version}}-cm_nodar.ova" |
| sys_serial_number       | "4082368-50-7"    | "4082368-50-7"                  | The system serial number to assign to the vsim, must match avail. licenses   |
| nvram_sysid             |                   | "4082368507"                    | The NVRAM SYSID can optionally be specified.  Randomly generated by default. |
| vdevinit                | "34:14:0,34:14:1" | "34:14:0,34:14:1"               | simulated disk configuration.  see vars/main.yml for more information.       |
| ontap_node_mgmt_ip      |                   | "192.168.0.91"                  | If specified, node setup will be attempted using the supplied IP             |
| ontap_netmask           |                   | "255.255.255.0"                 | Subnet mask for the data network                                             |
| ontap_gateway           |                   | "192.168.0.1"                   | Gateway IP for the data network                                              |
| ontap_cluster_mgmt_ip   |                   | "192.168.0.90"                  | If specified, cluster setup will be attempted using the supplied IP          |
| ontap_cluster_name      |                   | "democluster"                   | ONTAP cluster name                                                           |
| ontap_password          | "netapp123"       | "ChangeMe2!"                    | ONTAP admin password                                                         |
| ontap_dns_domain        |                   |                                 | DNS domain                                                                   | 
| ontap_dns_server        |                   |                                 | DNS Server on the data/mgmt network                                          |
| ontap_location          |                   |                                 | optional ONTAP SNMP location value used for cluster setup                    |
| set_admin_password      | "false"           | "true"                          | set admin password even on unconfigured nodes                                |
| shelf0_disk_count       |                   | "14"                            | (1-14) Number of disks to create on shelf 0                                  |
| shelf0_disk_size        |                   | "4000"                          | valid sizes are 500,1000,2000,4000, or 9000                                  |
| shelf0_disk_type        |                   |                                 | valid type from 'vsim_makedisks -h'. See defaults/main.yml for examples.     |
| shelf1_disk_count       |                   | "14"                            | (1-14) Number of disks to create on shelf 1                                  |
| shelf1_disk_size        |                   | "4000"                          | valid sizes are 500,1000,2000,4000, or 9000                                  |
| shelf1_disk_type        |                   |                                 | valid type from 'vsim_makedisks -h'. See defaults/main.yml for examples.     |
| shelf2_disk_count       |                   |                                 | (1-14) Number of disks to create on shelf 2                                  |
| shelf2_disk_size        |                   | "14"                            | valid sizes are 500,1000,2000,4000, or 9000                                  |
| shelf2_disk_type        |                   | "23"                            | valid type from 'vsim_makedisks -h'. See defaults/main.yml for examples.     |
| shelf3_disk_count       |                   |                                 | (1-14) Number of disks to create on shelf 3                                  |
| shelf3_disk_size        |                   |                                 | valid sizes are 500,1000,2000,4000, or 9000                                  |
| shelf3_disk_type        |                   |                                 | valid type from 'vsim_makedisks -h'. See defaults/main.yml for examples.     |
| add_nodes_by_serial     |                   | "4034389-06-2"                  | serial number of a node to add into the cluster                              |

Dependencies
------------

Example Playbook
----------------
      
    ---
    - hosts: localhost 
      name: Build ONTAP Simulator from OVA
      gather_facts: false
      vars: 
        vcenter_address: vcenter.demo.lab
        vcenter_username: administrator@vsphere.local
        vcenter_password: ChangeMe2!
        vcenter_datacenter: "Datacenter"
        vm_datastore: "datastore1"
      tasks:
        - include_role: 
            name: deploy_ovf_vsim
          vars:
            vm_name: vsim1
            ontap_node_mgmt_ip: "192.168.0.91"
            ontap_netmask: "255.255.255.0"
            ontap_gateway: "192.168.0.1"
            ontap_cluster_mgmt_ip: "192.168.0.90"
      

NOTES
-----
Cluster setup currently only works against the 1st node.

Author Information
------------------

Sean Hatfield
sean.hatfield@netapp.com
github.com/madlabber
